For our project, we as group 1 created our game Hollow Plight (https://github.com/Prowo/CMPM148-Project), a detective story about a sleepy city slowly waking up. We each were in charge of our own case which entails writing, coding, and inky interactions however we often worked collaboratively discussing ideas, themes, player mechanics, and experiences. This allowed us to write in the same frame of mind as well as help out when one of us was struggling. Steven worked on cleaning up inky code, debugging, and merging each case together, Ashley wrote the ending sequence which is big enough to be its own case, and Will finalized the writeup.
 The player plays as a noir style detective in the city of Dunwich, and they must investigate multiple cases that while seem disjoined, are in fact connected. The player must investigate each, and try to uncover the sinister forces at work behind the scenes. Accordingly, the target emotional goals for the player is to have a sense of mystery as you slowly learn the truth as to what is going on in this city. We also wanted our story to be suspenseful as the stakes throughout the story become increasingly higher and you wonder who is behind these crimes, and discover just how much power they hold.  For our personal goals we created a structure in ink where it's possible for the player to find hidden clues and provide feedback to the player so they can make connections between these clues and all the cases. We also wanted our story to have different degrees of completion based on information collected and choices made. We went with a detective story because it makes for a rewarding experience as the player is tasked with making important decisions in order to see the story to its true ending. This narrative provides a clear representation of player affordances of what the player can do, but still keeps the objective a mystery. They must discern information from the dialogue to make rational decisions.
As for the narrative stance and rationale, we used a second person subjective style with the player’s character, Tony the detective, as the focalizer. The second player perspective is used to have the player feel as though they are acting out the actions but also keeps some distance from the protagonist. This, when combined with the subjective style, helped to offer some more insight into the character of the protagonist as well as their thoughts on the world. The use of notation style as well was used albeit infrequently, to better describe the clues in an objective manner. The player should be able to learn the think-speak-act loop of the game and be able to discern choices. Think: Is to the inner thoughts of the protagonist, speak: see which dialogue is available, and act to see the outcome of said action.
Moving on to story structure, the overall story is a linear storylet sequence, however each case contains its own structure. Case 1 is a branching bottle neck structure as it’s simple and allows for variation based off of what the player finds and in what order. This also served as a safe way to introduce the player to the game as it was harder to completely fail or get too lost. Case 2 Is a gauntlet storylet structure. Since you are able to go to any location, you have the option to do nothing or very little to immediately fail solving case 2. If you do spend time investigating you are not offered to revisit the place again. Case 3 and The Ending are in a branching bottle neck storylet style. We chose to implement it this way because we wanted the player to focus on learning as much information as possible from character interactions as well as create areas where the player can fail. This would help increase suspense and player diligence. This is especially true in the Ending as there are points where the player can not get a good ending. It also relies on your relationship with Howard which we will talk about later. As you can see, we ended up doing different storylet structures for each case as we were working on them independently and then joining them later on. This worked out really nicely since it offers the player different ways to experience each case. This also led into one of the “cool stuff” in our game, as each case focused on a different key element of detective work.
On the coding side of things, there is the key Ink variables and state tracking. We mainly used Lists in order to track what clues were obtained, and what locations are available to go to. Integer variables were used to map the relationship between Tony and Howard and variables to keep track of interactions between characters as well as state tracking. Using these lists we were able to create a flag to branch off into different endings. The affordances provided by Lists also helped create the Deduce mechanic where you choose clues you find to either create new clues or closing the case successfully. A discourse example is all the possible endings through just dialog and choices. The ending helps shed light on who was behind the previous cases but also helps flesh out the relationship between Tony and his partner Howard. So past interactions with Howard are really important and decide whether you can save him with the power of friendship or he’s too far gone.
As for some interesting elements in our game, one of the best parts is like mentioned earlier, how each case highlights different aspects of detective work. Case 1 focuses on the investigation, Case 2 is a scavenger hunt with various locations you have to visit, and Case 3 focuses on the interrogation and reflection. This helped bring the game to a level beyond the sum of its parts. Additionally, we were able to implement a level select at the start of the game. While it does lock you out of the best ending as you won’t have the evidence you’d need, it allows for players who just want to play a certain part to get right to the case they are interested in. Lastly, our game wears its inspiration on its sleeve. Detective and Mystery shows such as The Mentalist and Criminal Minds helped form the backbone of the story, while we used Lovecraftian horror and Tarot to fill in the occult background to the city. This resulted in a feeling of a strange city slowly waking up as a good hearted detective tries to find the truth.
Resources used
https://github.com/inkle/ink/blob/master/Documentation/WritingWithInk.md
Lecture code


